readme.md, before:

## {eac}SimpleGTM Extension   
[![EarthAsylum Consulting](https://img.shields.io/badge/EarthAsylum-Consulting-0?&labelColor=6e9882&color=707070)](https://earthasylum.com/)
[![WordPress](https://img.shields.io/badge/WordPress-Plugins-grey?logo=wordpress&labelColor=blue)](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/EarthAsylum/)
[![eacDoojigger](https://img.shields.io/badge/Requires-%7Beac%7DDoojigger-da821d)](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/)

<details><summary>Plugin Header</summary>

Plugin URI:         https://eacdoojigger.earthasylum.com/eacsimplegtm/  
Author:             [EarthAsylum Consulting](https://www.earthasylum.com)  
Stable tag:         1.0.1  
Last Updated:       17-Jun-2024  
Requires at least:  5.8  
Tested up to:       6.5  
Requires PHP:       7.4  
Requires EAC:       2.6  
Contributors:       [kevinburkholder](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kevinburkholder)  
License:            GPLv3 or later  
License URI:        https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html  
Tags:               google tag manager, google analytics, tracking, analytics, {eac}Doojigger  
WordPress URI:      https://wordpress.org/plugins/eacsimplegtm  
GitHub URI:         https://github.com/EarthAsylum/eacsimplegtm  

</details>

> {eac}eacSimpleGTM installs and configures the Google Tag Manager (GTM) or Google Analytics (GA4) script with optional tracking events.

### Description

**{eac}Doojigger SimpleGTM** is an [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/) extension that installs the Google Tag Manager (GTM) or Google Analytics (GA4) script, sets default consent options, and enables tracking of page views, site searches, content views, and, when using [WooCommerce](https://woocommerce.com/), e-commerce actions.

_{eac}SimpleGTM_ is a very light-weight and simple extension that uses PHP to add small JavaScript snippets to your web pages for configuring and tracking with Google Analytics. Many web site owners will find this more than sufficient over more complicated (and over-bearing) alternatives.

#### Default Consent (advanced)

The selected consent attributes are set to 'granted' before other tags are loaded or actions taken. This does not make your site GDPR/CCPA compliant and should not be used in place of a Consent Management Platform (CMP). See Google's [Introduction to user consent](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12329599). This is typically not necessary and not recommended when using a CMP.

If no consent attributes are selected than the "consent default" configuration is not sent, otherwise, unselected attributes are set to "denied".

Default consent settings passed when initializing GTM or GA4:

    ad_storage	
    analytics_storage	
    ad_user_data	
    ad_personalization	
    functionality_storage	
    personalization_storage	
    security_storage	

#### Consent Options (advanced)

+   URL passthrough

When consent attributes `ad_storage` and/or `analytics_storage` are set to `denied`, pass information about ad clicks or analytics through URL parameters.

+   Allow Google Signals

Allows session data that Google associates with users who have signed in to their Google accounts, and who have turned on Ads Personalization.

+   Redact Ads Data

When ads_data_redaction is true and `ad_storage` is `denied`, ad click identifiers sent in network requests by Google Ads and Floodlight tags will be redacted. Network requests will also be sent through a cookieless domain.

#### Send Event Tags

When to send events to the browser. *In Page Footer* sends events in the page footer as the page loads.
*On Document Load* sends events as soon as the document is loaded but before the browser renders the page.
*On Window Ready* waits for the page to be rendered (this may be helpful with late-loading CMP plugins).

#### Events To Track

Custom events are simple events with limited data that use Google's recommended names and attributes

See Recommended events:
[Tag Manager](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/reference/events?client_type=gtm)  
[Google Tag](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/reference/events?client_type=gtag)

+   Page Views
    +   `page_view {page_title, page_location, page_referrer, user_agent, page_encoding, language}`

+   Site Search
    +   `search {search_term}`

+   View Content (category, tag, term)
    +   `select_content {content_type, content_id}`

+   View Archive (archive, author, date)
    +   `select_content {content_type, content_id}`

+   E-Commerce
    +   `view_item_list {item_list_id, item_list_name}`
    +   `view_item {currency, value, items}`
    +   `view_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `begin_checkout {currency, value, coupon, discount, items}`
    +   `purchase {transaction_id, currency, value, coupon, discount, shipping, tax, items}`
    +   *items = {item_id, item_name, price, discount, quantity, item_variant, item_category}*

+   Cart Actions
    +   `select_promotion {promotion_id, promotion_name}`
    +   `add_to_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `remove_from_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `update_cart_item {currency, value, items}`
    +   *items = {item_id, item_name, price, discount, quantity, item_variant, item_category}*

+   Page Not Found
    +   `page_not_found {request_uri}`

>   \* Session storage is used when cart actions are triggered. This requires enabling/setting *{eac}Doojigger → Session Extension*.

>   \* Page Views are typically included in your tag container, other tags & triggers may need to be configured in 
[Google Tag Manager](https://tagmanager.google.com/).

#### Actions and Filters

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_event 	- Action to add a custom event.
    +   `do_action( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_event( 'event_name', [...event parameters...] ) );`

+   eacDoojigger_google_ecommerce_event - Action to add an ecommerce event.
    +   `do_action( 'eacDoojigger_google_ecommerce_event( 'event_name', [...event parameters...] ) );`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_consent - Filter the consent array.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_consent', function($consent) {...} );`
    +   `$consent` is an array of `[ $option => 'granted|denied' ]`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_configuration - Filter the configuration array.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_configuration', function($config) {...} );`
    +   `$config` is an array of `[ $option => bool ]`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_events 	- Filter the events array prior to output.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_events', function($events) {...} );`
    +   `$events` is an array of `[ $event => [$attributes] ]`
    +   `$event` is an array `[type,event_name]` where type is 'gtm', 'gtag', or 'ecommerce'.


### Installation

**{eac}SimpleGTM** is an extension plugin to and requires installation and registration of [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/).

_\* Currently pending approval from the WordPress Plugin Repository._

#### Automatic Plugin Installation

This plugin is available from the [WordPress Plugin Repository](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/earthasylum/) and can be installed from the WordPress Dashboard » *Plugins* » *Add New* page. Search for 'EarthAsylum', click the plugin's [Install] button and, once installed, click [Activate].

See [Managing Plugins -> Automatic Plugin Installation](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#automatic-plugin-installation-1)

#### Upload via WordPress Dashboard

Installation of this plugin can be managed from the WordPress Dashboard » *Plugins* » *Add New* page. Click the [Upload Plugin] button, then select the eacsimplegtm.zip file from your computer.

See [Managing Plugins -> Upload via WordPress Admin](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#upload-via-wordpress-admin)

#### Manual Plugin Installation

You can install the plugin manually by extracting the eacsimplegtm.zip file and uploading the 'eacsimplegtm' folder to the 'wp-content/plugins' folder on your WordPress server.

See [Managing Plugins -> Manual Plugin Installation](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#manual-plugin-installation-1)

#### Settings

Once installed and activated options for this extension will show in the 'Tracking' tab of {eac}Doojigger settings.


### Screenshots

1. {eac}SimpleGTM Extension
![{eac}SimpleGTM](https://ps.w.org/eacsimplegtm/assets/screenshot-1.png)

2. {eac}SimpleGTM Extension (advanced mode)
![{eac}SimpleGTM advanced](https://ps.w.org/eacsimplegtm/assets/screenshot-2.png)


### Other Notes

#### Additional Information

+   {eac}SimpleGTM is an extension plugin to and requires installation and registration of [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/).

+   Visit the [EarthAsylum GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EarthAsylum) or the [{eac}Doojigger Web Site](https://eacdoojigger.earthasylum.com/) for all plugins, extensions, and documentation.

Commit message:

Version 1.0.2
= Version 1.0.2 – July 26, 2024 =

+   Additional documentation re: 3rd Party & Privacy.
+   Compatible with WordPress 6.6.
+   Safe/escaped variable naming convention.

readme.md, after:

## {eac}SimpleGTM Extension   
[![EarthAsylum Consulting](https://img.shields.io/badge/EarthAsylum-Consulting-0?&labelColor=6e9882&color=707070)](https://earthasylum.com/)
[![WordPress](https://img.shields.io/badge/WordPress-Plugins-grey?logo=wordpress&labelColor=blue)](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/EarthAsylum/)
[![eacDoojigger](https://img.shields.io/badge/Requires-%7Beac%7DDoojigger-da821d)](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/)

<details><summary>Plugin Header</summary>

Plugin URI:         https://eacdoojigger.earthasylum.com/eacsimplegtm/  
Author:             [EarthAsylum Consulting](https://www.earthasylum.com)  
Stable tag:         1.0.2  
Last Updated:       26-Jul-2024  
Requires at least:  5.8  
Tested up to:       6.6  
Requires PHP:       7.4  
Requires EAC:       2.6  
Contributors:       [kevinburkholder](https://profiles.wordpress.org/kevinburkholder)  
License:            GPLv3 or later  
License URI:        https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html  
Tags:               google tag manager, google analytics, tracking, analytics, {eac}Doojigger  
WordPress URI:      https://wordpress.org/plugins/eacsimplegtm  
GitHub URI:         https://github.com/EarthAsylum/eacsimplegtm  

</details>

> {eac}eacSimpleGTM installs and configures the Google Tag Manager (GTM) or Google Analytics (GA4) script with optional tracking events.

### Description

**{eac}Doojigger SimpleGTM** is an [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/) extension that installs the Google Tag Manager (GTM) or Google Analytics (GA4) script, sets default consent options, and enables tracking of page views, site searches, content views, and, when using [WooCommerce](https://woocommerce.com/), e-commerce actions.

_{eac}SimpleGTM_ is a very light-weight and simple extension that uses PHP to add small JavaScript snippets to your web pages for configuring and tracking with Google Analytics. Many web site owners will find this more than sufficient over more complicated (and over-bearing) alternatives.

#### Default Consent (advanced)

The selected consent attributes are set to 'granted' before other tags are loaded or actions taken. This does not make your site GDPR/CCPA compliant and should not be used in place of a Consent Management Platform (CMP). See Google's [Introduction to user consent](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12329599). This is typically not necessary and not recommended when using a CMP.

If no consent attributes are selected than the "consent default" configuration is not sent, otherwise, unselected attributes are set to "denied".

Default consent settings passed when initializing GTM or GA4:

    ad_storage	
    analytics_storage	
    ad_user_data	
    ad_personalization	
    functionality_storage	
    personalization_storage	
    security_storage	

#### Consent Options (advanced)

+   URL passthrough

When consent attributes `ad_storage` and/or `analytics_storage` are set to `denied`, pass information about ad clicks or analytics through URL parameters.

+   Allow Google Signals

Allows session data that Google associates with users who have signed in to their Google accounts, and who have turned on Ads Personalization.

+   Redact Ads Data

When ads_data_redaction is true and `ad_storage` is `denied`, ad click identifiers sent in network requests by Google Ads and Floodlight tags will be redacted. Network requests will also be sent through a cookieless domain.

#### Send Event Tags

When to send events to the browser. *In Page Footer* sends events in the page footer as the page loads.
*On Document Load* sends events as soon as the document is loaded but before the browser renders the page.
*On Window Ready* waits for the page to be rendered (this may be helpful with late-loading CMP plugins).

#### Events To Track

Custom events are simple events with limited data that use Google's recommended names and attributes

See Recommended events:
[Tag Manager](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/reference/events?client_type=gtm)  
[Google Tag](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/reference/events?client_type=gtag)

+   Page Views
    +   `page_view {page_title, page_location, page_referrer, user_agent, page_encoding, language}`

+   Site Search
    +   `search {search_term}`

+   View Content (category, tag, term)
    +   `select_content {content_type, content_id}`

+   View Archive (archive, author, date)
    +   `select_content {content_type, content_id}`

+   E-Commerce
    +   `view_item_list {item_list_id, item_list_name}`
    +   `view_item {currency, value, items}`
    +   `view_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `begin_checkout {currency, value, coupon, discount, items}`
    +   `purchase {transaction_id, currency, value, coupon, discount, shipping, tax, items}`
    +   *items = {item_id, item_name, price, discount, quantity, item_variant, item_category}*

+   Cart Actions
    +   `select_promotion {promotion_id, promotion_name}`
    +   `add_to_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `remove_from_cart {currency, value, items}`
    +   `update_cart_item {currency, value, items}`
    +   *items = {item_id, item_name, price, discount, quantity, item_variant, item_category}*

+   Page Not Found
    +   `page_not_found {request_uri}`

>   \* Session storage is used when cart actions are triggered. This requires enabling/setting *{eac}Doojigger → Session Extension*.

>   \* Page Views are typically included in your tag container, other tags & triggers may need to be configured in 
[Google Tag Manager](https://tagmanager.google.com/).

#### Actions and Filters

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_event 	- Action to add a custom event.
    +   `do_action( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_event( 'event_name', [...event parameters...] ) );`

+   eacDoojigger_google_ecommerce_event - Action to add an ecommerce event.
    +   `do_action( 'eacDoojigger_google_ecommerce_event( 'event_name', [...event parameters...] ) );`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_consent - Filter the consent array.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_consent', function($consent) {...} );`
    +   `$consent` is an array of `[ $option => 'granted|denied' ]`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_configuration - Filter the configuration array.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_configuration', function($config) {...} );`
    +   `$config` is an array of `[ $option => bool ]`

+   eacDoojigger_google_tag_events 	- Filter the events array prior to output.
    +   `add_filter( 'eacDoojigger_google_tag_events', function($events) {...} );`
    +   `$events` is an array of `[ $event => [$attributes] ]`
    +   `$event` is an array `[type,event_name]` where type is 'gtm', 'gtag', or 'ecommerce'.

#### 3rd Party Service

By loading the Google Tag Manager (GTM) or Google Analytics (GA4) script, {eac}SimpleGTM causes data collected from your website *and from your users* to be transmitted to Google. 

+   [How Google Analytics works](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12159447?hl=en)
+   [Introduction to Google Tag Manager](https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/6102821?hl=en)

*You are responsible for the proper configuration of your Google Analytics property and/or Google Tag Manager settings as well as proper notification and consent from your users.*

+   [Introduction to user consent](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12329599)

#### Privacy Disclosures Policy

When you use Google Analytics on your site or application, you must disclose the use of Google Analytics and how it collects and processes data.

+   [Google's Privacy & Terms](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/partners/)
+   [Safeguarding your data](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245)


### Installation

**{eac}SimpleGTM** is an extension plugin to and requires installation and registration of [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/).

_\* Currently pending approval from the WordPress Plugin Repository._

#### Automatic Plugin Installation

This plugin is available from the [WordPress Plugin Repository](https://wordpress.org/plugins/search/earthasylum/) and can be installed from the WordPress Dashboard » *Plugins* » *Add New* page. Search for 'EarthAsylum', click the plugin's [Install] button and, once installed, click [Activate].

See [Managing Plugins -> Automatic Plugin Installation](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#automatic-plugin-installation-1)

#### Upload via WordPress Dashboard

Installation of this plugin can be managed from the WordPress Dashboard » *Plugins* » *Add New* page. Click the [Upload Plugin] button, then select the eacsimplegtm.zip file from your computer.

See [Managing Plugins -> Upload via WordPress Admin](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#upload-via-wordpress-admin)

#### Manual Plugin Installation

You can install the plugin manually by extracting the eacsimplegtm.zip file and uploading the 'eacsimplegtm' folder to the 'wp-content/plugins' folder on your WordPress server.

See [Managing Plugins -> Manual Plugin Installation](https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#manual-plugin-installation-1)

#### Settings

Once installed and activated options for this extension will show in the 'Tracking' tab of {eac}Doojigger settings.


### Screenshots

1. {eac}SimpleGTM Extension
![{eac}SimpleGTM](https://ps.w.org/eacsimplegtm/assets/screenshot-1.png)

2. {eac}SimpleGTM Extension (advanced mode)
![{eac}SimpleGTM advanced](https://ps.w.org/eacsimplegtm/assets/screenshot-2.png)


### Other Notes

#### Additional Information

+   {eac}SimpleGTM is an extension plugin to and requires installation and registration of [{eac}Doojigger](https://eacDoojigger.earthasylum.com/).

+   Visit the [EarthAsylum GitHub Repository](https://github.com/EarthAsylum) or the [{eac}Doojigger Web Site](https://eacdoojigger.earthasylum.com/) for all plugins, extensions, and documentation.
